In the last video, we established that we need to communicate more information from the request handler
to the error handling middleware through this error object.
But because we are using TypeScript, we cannot just arbitrarily add in additional properties to the
error object itself.
So in this video, we're going to figure out how to solve this issue with a very TypeScript style approach.
So here's really the issue.
Here's what we want to do, summarized in a single sentence.
We really want an object like an air.
We really want an error object, essentially, but we want to add in some more custom properties to
it.
That's what we really want to do right now.
So any time that you say that you want something like X, but you want to add in some more custom properties,
that is usually a sign that you want to subclass something.
And that's exactly what you and I are going to do.
We are going to take the built in error object.
We are going to subclass it into two separate subclasses.
We're going to call one request validation, error.
And the second database connection error.
Request validation error is going to be a new type of error object that we're going to throw any time
that there is an error with the incoming data on that incoming request.
Then any time that anything goes wrong with a database connection, we will instead throw a database
connection error.
So that would be like this right here.
The reason that we are making both these subclasses is that when we create the subclass, we can add
in some additional custom properties to it that will further clarify the reason for the error.
Again, we are trying to use these custom subclasses to communicate much more information.
From the request handler down to that error handling middleware.
Now at this point, this might seem pretty crazy.
So let me show you a diagram to help you understand the entire big picture of what is going on here.
So kind of complicated diagram.
We'll go through it step by step.
So we're going to first start off up here inside of our request handler.
You and I are going to create two new subclasses.
One is going to be called request validation error, and another that is going to be called database
connection error.
Because we are building these classes ourselves, we can add in as many custom properties as we wish.
So for example, on the request validation error subclass, we can assign to it a new property called
Reasons, and that could be an array of objects that has exactly why the request validation failed.
Then over on this other subclass we can say that it needs to have a message property or maybe a reason
property.
We can call it whatever we want and it could be a simple string that says something like failed to connect
to database.
I'll request handler at some point.
Time is going to throw either this or this.
To be precise, it's going to throw an instance of request, validation, error, or an instance of
database connection error.
So that air either this one or this one is going to be thrown and it's eventually going to flow on down
to our error handling middleware.
Then site of our error handling middleware.
We're going to set up some code inside there to inspect the air that it is receiving.
So we're going to check inside the air handling middleware and we're going to say, okay, I see an
air is coming.
Is it an instance of the request validation air class?
If it is, then that means great.
We have an instance of request validation air.
Let's take that reasons property.
So this property right here and we're going to use that to build a response to send back to the user.
If the incoming error is not a request validation error, then we will check to see if it is an instance
of database connection error.
If it is, then great.
Let's take that reason property and we'll send it to the user.
And if we fail both these checks, then we don't know what kind of error this is.
It is a generic error.
And so in that scenario, we should probably send some kind of generic error message back to the user.
So this is it.
This is the entire flow.
We're going to build out these subclasses to describe all the different things that can go wrong whenever
we throw one of these errors.
It's going to go into the error handling middleware.
We're going to try to figure out the type of error that it is, and then we can build up some appropriate
response.
Now, what I'm showing here on this diagram and specifically adding these properties right here is still
kind of a simplified version.
After we build an initial implementation of this, we're going to come back and refine this even more
to add in way more automatic aspects to this.
I know in the last couple of videos I've said, Hey, just hold on, please be patient.
We're almost at the point now where you're going to see that this really is an incredible error handling
approach.
So just a little bit more patience.
We're going to start to write out this implementation in the next video, and you're really going to
start to see all this stuff start to come together.
So quick pause and I'll see you in just a minute.